So here you can see I've downloaded the center server appliance ISO and I got this from my VM where
dot com.
And so I've downloaded the ISO.
I've already actually extracted the files to a folder here called VSE.
And within this folder I'm just going to browse to the CSA UI installer go to Win32 and I'm going to
go ahead and launch the installer make full screen and I'm going to install I'm going to install a new
V Center server appliance.
Now before I even go on here let's close the installer and go back real quick because there's a number
of different options that are presented here.
Right.
Like I could migrate from an existing center server for Windows to visit our server appliance I could
upgrade an existing V Center server appliance.
I'm going to choose to do a fresh install here.
That's the process that I want to demonstrate.
And so I'm going to deploy a new virtual appliance.
So I'll go ahead and choose next I'll accept the license agreement.
You know basic stuff here and then I'll choose the deployment type.
And in this case I don't believe I'm going to have multiple Center instances that I want to use a shared
a platform services controller for I'm only going to have one V Center server.
And so for me it makes sense to go with an embedded platform services controller.
But if you were to have multiple Center instances then you might want to consider going with an external
platform services controller.
So I'll go with the embedded I'll choose next and I'm going to put in the IP address or the end of my
ESX host.
So let's grab that.
So here I am in my VM or workstation environment and you can see here I've got a bunch of virtual machines
running one of which is a virtual ESX I host.
So I'm going to go ahead and grab the IP address of that ESX I host so that I have a target to send
this Vee's center virtual appliance too.
I mean this is going to be a virtual machine.
So it needs to run on some yes Exide host.
So my ESX host is going to be 192 168 dot 199 dot 11
so I put my IP address.
I'll put in my username which is Route my password go hadn't hit next.
That's probably going to kick out a certificate warning.
Yup I'm going to go ahead and just hit Jess here.
And now I'm going to set up my appliance virtual machine so I'm going to name the virtual machine.
V c s a dash lab.
And I'm going to make my root password something that I can definitely easily remember.
And now it's going to have me choose the deployment size.
So how many ESX I hosts.
Am I going to be dealing with how many ESX I host as is the center need to support.
How many Reems how much.
How much memory in s.p use are going to be assigned really depend on the amount of hosts and VAMC that
this environment needs to support.
So I'm going to go with the tiny deployment size and the default storage size and I'll hit next and
you'll notice here that my installer Lague kicked out an error in saying I don't have enough memory
on the host for the selected profile.
So I'm guessing my virtualise ESX host doesn't actually have enough memory 10 gigs to support this virtual
machine.
So I'm going to go make a quick change there and then we'll come back here and we'll try it again.
OK so I paused my recording and I actually changed the amount of memory on that ESX host and I also
freed up some space in my storage to accommodate the swap file for this VM.
So let's try it again.
And on this screen I'll choose the data store that my visa under virtual machine will be stored on.
And now we'll go ahead and assign it some addressing information.
So I'm going to give it a static IP address and I'm going to provide it with a system name as well which
is going to be the either the QTL or IP address of the system name.
I'm going to call it the C as a lab is going to be the name of it.
And I of course have to put in the fully qualified domain name so I'll call it VC I say dash lab dot
lab local and I'll go ahead and put in the IP address that I'm going to use 9 2 1 6 8 1 9 9 21 and my
subnet mask will be 2 5 5 5 5 2 5 5 0.
It's throwing a warning here basically telling me that the key d'Ayen of the system name is not resolvable
to this IP address.
That's OK.
I'm going to go with 1 9 2 1 6 8 8 1 9 9 1 for the default gateway and DNS server 1 2 2 1 6 8 1 9 9
4.
Now of course in your environment you know these addresses are all going to be different.
And even if you've built your own home lab you're probably going to have some different addresses.
Some of the problems that I'm having with DNS and stuff like that is because the DNS server set up in
my lab environment not on this particular PC that I'm recording this class.
So when I deployed as we sent our share replied into the lab it should work just fine.
And here gives me all of the details of the configuration that I've created.
So I'm going to go ahead and hit finish.
And this is the part that's going to take a pretty long time especially because in my environment my
large data store that I'm storing this in is very slow.
So I'm going to pause the recording and allow this suppliants to complete the point.
All right.
So that took about 15 minutes in my live environment.
But my installation of my V Center server appliance is complete.
So I'm going to go ahead and close the installer here and what it's telling me is to complete the installation
process.
Stage 2 I need to go to the web interface the V Center server appliance itself.
So here we can see I've used the web browser to successfully go ahead and open up the web interface
to my new Wii center server appliance.
And now from here I need to continue on with my configuration.
So I'm going to choose to set up a V Center server appliance and I'll go ahead and I'll put in my my
route credentials here.
Log in and I'll begin stage two or actually set up the central server appliance.
So here's all the configuration settings that I currently have.
In this case I'm going to use synchronize with the ESX I host for the time synchronization method.
Just because I don't have an A.P. server set up in my lab environment.
So I'll just go with that and then I'll go ahead and hit next.
And it's saving some of the configuration changes.
If you run into any errors here make sure that you know your DNS server is up and running and working
properly.
That's usually the most common cause of problems here is that the Sanish I was unable to communicate
with DNS now will create my single sign on administrator I don't want to join the customer experience
improvement programs so I'm going to check that out next and I'll just validate all of my settings here
which all look great and I'll go ahead and finish.
And once this process starts you can't stop it.
Essentially what that message there was is telling me.
All right so we can see it now I have successfully deployed my center server appliance.
And at this point it's ready to go.
So for all of you home lab users out there what I'm going to do now kind of behind the scenes here is
I've created this new Wii center server appliance I'm actually going to use it to replace my existing
windows V Center in my home lab.
So I'm going to do is I'm going to actually deploy this new virtual machine as an overlay and then import
it into my VM or workstation inventory.
And that's a pretty straightforward way to allow you to kind of build this VM on one of your lab ESX
I hosts but then kind of take it out of that lab environment and run the center virtual machine directly
on VM or workstation.